what would your life be like if prices
doubled or even tripled from here you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you we're going to explore that
today I'm going to show you what's
happening the jobs numbers the inflation
numbers but what's going on I'm going to
explain it in detail but we'll make it
real easy real simple the first thing we
need to look at is the data that they're
pushing out there and I've seen The
Economist pick it up I've looked at
government officials picking this up and
of course making its way all the way
down the ranks but I want to show you
what's actually going on it's going to
make a lot of sense right here as we
begin to talk about inflation inflation
was flat in October from the prior month
core CPI hits a 2-year low I'll give you
the charts in a few minutes but there
are a few things that you need to know
US inflation broadly slows erasing bets
on more Fed rate hikes and that's where
this all begins because if you look look
at the data and you see it the market
reacts positively the stock market loves
basically all information you fire
people hey fantastic why why would that
happen it's because you want to cut
costs oh that's right shareholders love
cutting costs Facebook started to go up
when they started firing people and
that's an important difference in what
you would think would be a normal
Healthy Growth that's not the case look
the economy is riant on something that's
very simple and yet we get all of this
information coming through that just
makes it so complicated look they want
easy money that's it stop going out
there and trying to learn all this
little intricacies and everything
believe me I've been studying way too
many hours over the years and while yes
in one hand it's something that I enjoy
I realize much later on that what you're
being fed is is really just convoluting
the entire story Easy Money runs the
show follow the money Easy Money runs
the show let me get into it media jobs
slashed amids soft ad Market we're
seeing this everywhere of course all
over the place Walmart sounds a note of
caution on consumers ahead of the
holidays and the shares fall as a result
now you might not be shedding a tear for
The Waltons I know
but we need to understand that this is
now affecting the customers clearly very
clearly anecdotal evidence has been
popping up everywhere restaurants are
slower there's less business being done
I'm noticing the Imports I'm noticing
the exports one after the other after
the other and just recently we had the
leader of China coming to California and
meeting with a whole bunch of people
including all the Business Leaders and
what was it all about
getting the economy going again because
they are too connected China and the us
whether we like it or not they are
completely reliant on each other today
and you're probably asking yourself what
does this have to do with me buddy I
don't know what you're talking about it
makes a lot of sense when you start to
realize what comes next can you figure
it out let's get into it I want to show
you Rolex pek Philip prices hit fresh to
your lows the sub dial index you've
probably heard of this I've shown it on
the channel before you had um you know
all these gurus on YouTube talking about
their watch portfolio how it's worth
Iman gaji telling you he's got a $2
million portfolio a $3 million portfolio
oh it's so fantastic yet based on what
prices are you using retail prices or
the secondary Market because the
secondary Market has plummeted all of
that growth that came during the frenzy
has been erased so what prices are you
using it's nonsense look at the real
data it goes on berbery profits slide as
luxury demand weakens of course there's
a lot here to do with China because the
Chinese buyers are not in the market
like they were before very important
stuff and now we need to ask the
question what's next no we don't need
Drake to tell us that uh we can learn
that on our own or I can tell you right
now understand that it's important to
know what comes after what do we have
I'll show you more charts in a second
but understand the basics we've got many
deflationary events that have taken
place over the last little while and the
response to that always inevitably
mostly I mean it's been going on for 100
years but mostly since 200 and8 and we
have been having all sorts of calls for
additional easing additional policy
measures and if you can believe it or
not the QE that's been going on right
money printing the ECB has even said
that we want to make this a permanent
fixture we want to continue to hold this
stuff on our balance sheets forever what
does that tell you about the soundness
of this financial system that they are
willing to degrade your hard-earned
savings this is a joke unfortunately
it's not funny are you are you I mean
I'm laughing now but this is the way it
goes understand something there are
deflationary factors there's economic
growth right now that is slowing down no
question about that and inflation is
falling based on their metrics when you
use the CP I the core CPI it's still not
at that 2% level that they want to
achieve that they say they want to
achieve and it needs to get there in
order for them to achieve their goal
right but there's only one possible
ending to this
story do you know what that is well of
course this is the
response for every action there's an
equal and opposite reaction you've heard
this before 4 I believe it's Newton's
third
law and what that means in relation to
the economy in relation to the financial
markets is that what we will see in the
coming time are more deflationary
factors coming through one or the other
or this inflation as they like to say
like inflation slowing down that giving
them the excuse to begin to cut interest
rates because what they determine is is
something called a neutral rate neutral
so they don't want to be restrictive and
they don't want to be too loose and this
is based not just on the FED funds rate
but that's one major factor so they can
opt to bring interest rates down um to
you know just just a slight little bit
if they want to and they can make an
excuse for that and all all of that we
get that that's fine but in doing so
historically every time time if you look
at the FED funds rate over a period what
has happened is that an event occurs
which causes them to cut interest rates
how often in history have we seen
central banks not even the FED like go
back and all of history where nothing
really happened like it's just kind of
okay I think it's time to cut interest
rates now and they just begin to bring
interest rates down from let's just say
a reasonable level to an unre reasonably
low
level it's like to my knowledge I've
read a lot I don't know everything but
that doesn't happen there's always a
catalyst there's always an event and so
we need to wait for this we don't know
what's going to happen with this but
that's the situation
today you might be thinking to yourself
I'm going to wait and I'm going to see
when real estate prices
decline considerably 50%
75% whatever the case is inventory is
going to pile up everywhere and I'm
going to walk in scoop it all up and I'm
going to look like a genius because that
YouTuber told me to do
so understand that if you see prices
going down by 50% by 75% whatever it is
whatever you're being told there is
chaos there is a big problem during the
financial crisis we can all look back in
the rear viiew mirror and realize uh you
know oh yeah that was so obvious but at
that time very few were in the position
to say you know what this is the right
time to buy all heck was breaking loose
nobody felt sound it seemed like even
though the stock market started going up
again real estate was still encountering
a problem so they didn't feel
comfortable buying in now some people
did some people took that risk but the
majority of people watching real estate
prices fall and continue to fall and of
course the mortgagees everything
connected with it they didn't just say
you know what I think now is the right
time people didn't see that and that's
why we got to be aware of this this kind
of thing is happening today so a
deflationary event is met with a policy
response from the Federal Reserve and
from the government and that will create
more and more inflation and you will see
potentially a doubling a tripling of
prices who knows where will this come
from where will it land nobody can tell
the future okay nobody can tell the
future and what we do know historically
we use that data we pull it up and what
does it say the central banks will
devalue your currency you save you work
hard you do things for yourself in your
family and what are they about to do
they're about to eradicate that they're
about to eviscerate that how does that
make you feel what do you think you
would do if you were put in that
position you and Jerome Powell you and
Janet my favorite Yellen in a room
together just the two of you what would
you do well I know what I would be doing
with Janet yelling oops look at this
here you can see the charts right well
let's take a few shelter and rent
inflation year-over-year change that has
come down this is year-over-year change
mind you but at the same time prices you
know we have come off the tops a little
bit in MO in most cases rents probably
near their all-time high I mean
depending on where you look it is truly
excessive many have said that inventory
will pile up we have not seen that yet
although we are off the bottom looking
at headline CPI you could see the chart
just the same information from before
looking like it is trending down core
CPI trending down as well so when we
look at the core when we look at the
headline doesn't matter all we need to
know the movement is down industrial
production has been very weak and this
is why indicator I love to look at okay
because I want to see what's going on
what's the output that tells me what's
happening the demand from the consumer
you could look at Walmart you could look
at like all that stuff but when we're
actually seeing the industrial
production that's a better signal for me
anyway and then we have autos and trucks
looking at the demand on that as well
certainly less there okay so going back
to the levels we haven't seen um since
2020 and so all around we are watching
many different events that have been
occurring there's a mixed bag but what I
can see specifically is that the
consumer is kind of tired they're
waiting and seeing when it comes to real
estate when it comes to cars when it's
comes to you know manufacturers
restaurants everything they are kind of
in this wait and see mode what are they
waiting for they're being told there's a
recession or one is coming they're also
being told it's going to be a soft
Landing so not much to prepare for there
and then at the same time they're
basically saying overwhelmingly that
interest rates are going to be lower
next year so why buy why not wait if
that's the case if inflation is slowing
down and maybe even this inflation
deflation maybe we're going to see
interest rates cut why would I buy a
house now why would I buy a car now why
wouldn't I just put off all purchases
because a deflationary event is coming
or is it inflation this is what we got
to understand the deflation brings the
inflation I I look at some of these guys
out
there and I think well
anyway the
deflation won't come in the long term
why it's because the central banks have
committed to one thing Ben ber nanki
type this a search engine Ben banki
speech fed
200222 and you will get the speech it's
a PDF you could search for this read the
whole thing I encourage you I've brought
it up probably about 100 times on this
channel and he tells you right in the
title deflation making sure it doesn't
happen here it goes through the the
things like a 40% uh I just talked about
this two days ago or three days ago a
40% devaluation 40% how does that make
you feel if you were sitting in that
room with Ben banki what would you do
that's what's coming I want you to get
the latest and greatest information I
don't want you to get the BS I want to
cut through all that I don't want to
have to worry about the clickbait and
all that garbage when you join up with
the group that we have the finance
Friday live this is a small Zoom class
you ask me direct questions we are a
small group of people I added
information on the page the link is in
the description now so it'll break that
down even further this is it so you
could see it for yourself and understand
all the things I email people constantly
they're always asking about and I just
put that information on the page click
the link in the description just hit
that button right there join up with
what I consider to be very like-minded
people it's a small group of people not
everybody has their camera on you can
have your privacy there's no reason that
you got to give up any privacy or
anything I hope that you'll join me
either for the the business side which
is on the Sunday or the Friday which is
the finance Fridays either way I want to
see you there so we could cut through
the garbage cut through the nonsense and
just get you the real data that you need
to know I hope that I will see you there
click that link and at least email me
see what you got and I want to do the
comment of the day of course I always
love your comments um and you know I I
um request all other YouTubers to start
caring about their subscribers that
would be nice if they started care you
could see Daniel I want to thank you for
your comment I was at the grocery store
with my wife when I said the price of a
bag of chips was $5.99 I was shocked
since then I've been figuring out how
much I've earned in bags of potato chips
I rounded down to $5 for easy math
that's amazing I love to see that kind
of thing I mean unfortunately about the
bag of chips cost but that this is is
just putting into perspective and that's
what's happening right now our dollars
are being devalued don't wait for the
deflation it might happen certainly
could happen and there might be EV many
events will happen that are deflationary
but in the end they're ready to inflate
your currency and not the amount of
chips in that bag let me tell you well I
guess the air will be inflated but not
the amount of chips okay I'll see you on
the next one take care